Independent Colonies are populated worlds that do not belong to any faction. They are neutral worlds, and are largely undeveloped.

You can befriend them by establishing trade treaties and offering them gifts. If they like you enough they may ask you to colonize them and join your empire. The large, already established populations of independent colonies can provide a big boost to your empire when it is still growing.

Another strategy for dealing with independent colonies is to simply build up your troops and invade them. However doing this will harm your reputation with other factions.

[H3]Independent Colony List[/H3]
This screen lists all your relations with independent colonies. Check the various sort and filter options at the top of the panel.

Independent colonies do not belong to any faction. You can trade with them for resources. You can also integrate them into your empire, either by force or through diplomacy.

Each list item shows how the independent colony feels towards you along with the trend of your relationship.

Clicking a relation item in the list will select the independent colony, if known.

[H3]Relation Detail Panel[/H3]
Hovering over a list item shows the Relation detail panel to the right. Clicking the list item or the detail panel will lock it open.

The detail panel provides a complete summary of your relationship with the selected independent colony, with similar information to what you would see when interacting with another empire.

[H3]Strategy[/H3]
The Strategy section allows you to specify how you will interact with the colony. You can attempt to integrate them via gifts and diplomacy, eventually leading to an invitation to colonize. Or you can choose to invade and take the colony by force.

[H3]Speaking with an Independent Colony[/H3]
You can converse with the independent colony by clicking the 'Speak' button underneath their name in the detail panel. Discussions with independent colonies provides options like offering treaties and gifts, or even negotiating detailed trade deals.

Independent colonies can often have knowledge about secret locations throughout the galaxy which they may be willing to sell to you if relations are friendly enough.

Click 'Goodbye' or the close button at top-right to end the conversation.