Military Ships

Military Ships defend your empire against enemy attacks. They can also be used to expand your empire through conquest, attacking enemy fleets and invading enemy colonies. Military Ships can also protect against marauding pirates and dangerous space creatures.

Military Ships come in various sizes and roles. As your tech progresses you can research new military Ship Hulls that allow you to design and construct larger military ships.

[H3]Assigning Missions[/H3]
To assign missions to a military ship first select it by left-clicking in the list or directly in the main view. Then right-click over the target to assign the default mission.

Holding down the right-click button will provide a list of all valid missions for the target. Select the desired mission type from the list.

[H3]Military Ship List[/H3]
This screen lists all of the Military Ships in your empire. Check the extensive sort and filter options at the top of the panel. You can sort by strength, size, fleet, role and troop attack strength. You can filter by role, fleet status, automation status and damage level.

When zoomed out to the galaxy- or system-level the military ships are highlighted on the map. Hovering over an item in the list will ping the location on the map. Clicking the item will select it. Double-clicking the item will move the view to that location.

Each list item shows the current mission for the ship. If the ship is part of a fleet the fleet name is shown in brackets after the ship name. Also shown are the combat strength of the ship and the attack strength of any troops onboard. Any characters onboard the ship are shown at the right, next to the mission description.

Ships that are damaged or under construction have a red or orange background behind their image. Hover over the ship image to show the health level.

Hovering over a list item displays a detailed summary in a panel at the right.

[H3]Automation Status[/H3]
The small button at the right allows you to change the automation status of the ship. Thus you can manually control the ship or fully automate it, allowing it to select it's own missions.

Or you can have more specific automation, where the ship will only assign missions for escort, guard, patrol or raid.

[H3]Tactical Settings[/H3]
Each ship has a full array of tactical settings that fine-tune how they operate. Open the tactical settings screen by selecting the ship and clicking the 'Set Tactics' button at the far-right under the Selection Panel.

You can control how ships will respond to threats by setting the Engagement Range. For further details hover over each setting in the Tactical Settings screen.