All ships require fuel to move around the galaxy. Fuel is a critical resource that allows your empire to expand.

The universal fuel resource is Caslon. This is a light blue gas found mainly at Gas Giant planets.

[H3]How fuel is used[/H3]
Fuel is consumed by reactor components to generate raw energy. This energy is then used by all of the components on a ship or base that require it. This includes energy for engines and hyperdrives to move a ship. Other components that consume energy include: shields (when recharging), weapons, construction yards, and many others.

[H3]Refuelling[/H3]
Refuelling points are locations that are willing to sell fuel to the ships in your empire. This includes all friendly spaceports, colonies and fuel mining stations. This also includes independent colonies. The location of refuelling points are indicated by a blue circular icon next to the system name when zoomed out to the galaxy level.

The current movement range of the selected ship is shown by a dashed yellow range circle that can be seen when zoomed out to the galaxy level. This helps you to visually gauge how far a ship can travel before it requires refuelling.

The current jump range range of the selected ship is shown by a dashed orange range circle that can be seen when zoomed out to the galaxy level. This helps you to visually gauge how far a ship can travel in a single jump before it needs to exit hyperspace and initiate a new jump on the path to its destination.

When a ship runs out of fuel it will automatically switch to using it’s emergency fuel supply. When using the emergency fuel supply the ship will move at one third of normal speed. The emergency fuel supply will last indefinitely, but you should refuel the ship to regain normal movement speeds.

[H3]Energy Collectors[/H3]
Bases can typically supply most of their energy needs by using energy collector components. Energy collectors generate energy from the radiation of a nearby star, reducing the need for fuel.

However energy collectors only operate while stationary, so they are typically only of use on immobile bases, or when a ship is idle.